E087 - Handwritten Miller family tradition account

Diplomatic transcription prepared 19 September 2026 from the five-page image-only PDF supplied as nellie_alt_miller.pdf. Original spelling, capitalization, and punctuation are retained as closely as practical. Line wrapping is normalized into paragraphs. Words supplied or uncertain are enclosed in square brackets. Struck-out wording is omitted when a clear replacement is present. The scan remains authoritative.

PDF PAGE 1 (unnumbered manuscript page)

John William Alexander Miller

The Miller family history begins with John Wm A. the son of Abraham Miller. John was born about 1825 in Washington D. C. Near 1849-50 he married Anna Elizabeth Blackstone, who was born in Devonshire England. She had lived in a place of the same name as that of her father. If true such a circumstance would ordinarily indicate she came of a more or less landed gentry.

So far the family story poses a mystery unsolvable. As searching has been done in all areas without success.

How or where did John meet a lady of her class and who was disowned for marrying him. It is interesting to speculate on the circumstances of the match. But to find the facts requires a great deal more research.

To John and Anna Elizabeth was born a son named -

John Thomas Miller

Note

Since the above was written I have learned John W. A. Miller was born in Germany. Which clears up the problem of his marriage to Anna Elizabeth Blackstone. We can assume they were married in England. And now the search goes to there.

PDF PAGE 2 (manuscript page 2)

Son George also stated John went to Baltimore and worked as an apprentice under John Wm. Bruce. Which would indicate some friendly connection between the Miller and Bruce families.

John Wm Bruce worked for the Baltimore and Ohio railroad in their shops, as did as many as four or five of his sons through the years. While John Thomas was learning blacksmithing he lived with the Bruces. But apparently he did not follow the Bruces to Piedmont W. Va. when John Bruce was transferred to superintend the big Baltimore and Ohio shop there. No one of the Bruce family ever mentioned John Miller.

But in 1872 he went to Westernport, just across the river from Piedmont W. Va., to marry Annah Bruce. The marriage license dated 13, September 1872 shows Johns age as twenty and his residence as Baltimore Md. and painter as his occupation. Anna is noted as W. Anna Bruce age seventeen. She never used her name Williamannah. Who could blame her? What a terrible name to give a little girl. I think just because she was the seventh daughter and daddy thought he would never have another son he could name William, then he did have one right after Anna. He should have been more patient.

But back to John T. We wonder if he did learn to be a blacksmith. For painter fits better with the story of his being a carriage painter. And that he also made calling cards. And we know how they were so beautifully done by hand, and would be of the same fine painstaking form of art.

Johns and Annahs family soon began to arrive, and grow.

PDF PAGE 3 (newspaper clipping)

Funeral To Be Held Wednesday For J. T. Miller

Funeral services will be held this afternoon at 2:30 from the chapel of the Baldwin Park Funeral Home for John Thomas Miller, 87, of 1425 E. Valley boulevard, El Monte, who passed away November 20.

Mr. Miller, who was born April 17, 1851, at Washington D. C., had been a resident of El Monte three years and of the state 12 years.

The deceased a widower, is survived by three sons, Asa Miller, 217 Bogart street, John R. Miller, 134 N. Center street, Baldwin Park, and George Miller of St. Louis; and two daughters, Mrs. Emma Prosser and Mrs. Lula Lutten, both of 1425 E. Valley, El Monte.

Burial will be in the Rose Hills cemetery.

PDF PAGE 4 (manuscript page 3)

You can follow that growth on the family record sheet. She was such a little thing to have so many children. We know she was a small and attractive young girl.

The family started out with Charles Asa, as you can see, who was born in Westernport Md. Also the sister who followed him, the next little girl [Erma?] born in Piedmont W. Va., and both died in their infancy.

What a terrible blow to the young parents. Emma and Oliver were, also born in W. Va., William in Minnesota, John in Joliet Ill. also George, and Lula in E. St. Louis Ill.

Life was not easy for the little mother Annah. For John was a rover from his early years. The first long trip was made to Cedar Rapids Iowa when Oliver was only seven months old because he had a job there. They were a much traveled family before they finally landed in E. St. Louis. Johns itchy feet had kept them moving ever farther west. No wonder Charles Asa said the main thing he remembered was "moving."

The families life seemed settled down in St Louis. And the family grew up and some were married and had children. Son Olivers daughter told me the only thing she remembers about the family in St Louis was that her grandparents lived on a farm. That was just surprising! Nomads dont farm, they just move on to greener pastures. They really needed time to rest I guess.

But farm they did, or at least lived on one. For the grand daughter recalls all of the apples she ate there. And they must have raised a lot of carrots for I recall dad Asa saying he never wanted to eat another carrot, he got sick of them.

While the Millers lived in St. Louis many members of Annahs

PDF PAGE 5 (manuscript page 4)

Bruce family came to visit them, as many of them had passes for railroad travel and others were financially able to afford it, many made trips out to see them. This of course would have made Annah very happy. For she was so isolated from all of her fathers family.

It is not possible to say how long the family lived in St. Louis. But several of the family were married there and had there children born there. Son George was the only one of the family who never came west. He said the Bruces were still visiting in St Louis as late as 1905 as there were out to see the Worlds Fair there.

Some time along the way the family resided in Clifton, and there is no record of when they came to Calif. to live. Where six of them later died, correction, seven of the family died in California.

Not enough is known of Johns and Annahs family to give more than a few biographical notes.

Charles Asa was a plumbing and heating contractor. Olivers daughter said her father was a coal and ice dealer. He had the largest family, eight children. Asa had seven, but raised five. George had three, he was a city man, urbane, pleasant and self-assured. John was an inventor, a builder and full of ideas. He invented the home water heater. He served in World War I and fought in France. He and wife May had no children, neither did Erma, nor Wallace who married late and died very soon after. Lula had two children.

John and Annah did well as the progenitors and founders of the Miller clan and a family to be proud of who in turn have followed in their footsteps.

Note - John T. Miller came to Cal. in 1938
